no I'm good just gonna put one down next
to her so you're not harming her no
absolutely not
and then I just been the other one
constrain it now I've never actually
melt a spider before burn I enough still
always a first time
right what I have to do now is grasp
this little thread extending at the back
of her abdomen and pull simple as that
and out comes a seemingly endless thread
being made in the tiny silk factory at
the back of the spider this spider could
produce 700 meters of silk in one
continuous strand
but to discover why the silk is so
strong we need to have a closer look at
the spider itself
this is the actual spider at 12,000
times magnification here on the abdomen
are four organs known as spinnerets
[Music]
each of them is dotted with lots of
mobile finger-like spigots
squirt at liquid protein as the liquid
leaves the spider
[Music]
it dries on contact with the air forming
a super-strong trend
and twisting several strands together
gives the thread even more strength
[Music]
each spider can produce several
different types of silk from their
spinnerets
from sticky sheets used to wrap the
victim to an incredibly strong single
thread
[Music]
you're kind of aware of the toughness of
this stuff that's just disproportionate
to its scale it's so fine that's what a
30th the thickness of human hair and yet
you can feel it you can exert pressure
on it you can feel the bounce in it
[Music]
if this thread was thick as a pencil
they could tow an ocean liner with ease
but the genius of the web lies not just
in the strong threat but in how it's
used and that secret lies in the water
droplets at every Junction
inside each droplet strands of web are
tightly curled scientists believe that
when a fly slams into it these strands
unravel allowing the web to flex and
stretch
without breaking
[Music]
you